---
title: Nix Package Manager
author: Sivaram Balakrishnan
---

For using Nix, you don't have to install NixOS! Infact you can use Nix
without any harm to your existing distro. If you have decided that Nix
is awful, freedom from Nix is only one command away! So it is completely
safe to try Nix alongside your distro's package manager.

Install Nix:
[Nix Manual](http://nixos.org/nix/manual/#chap-installation)

TL; DR:

``` bash
bash <(curl https://nixos.org/nix/install)
```

But you're asking me to run random bash script from the internets!
Well, you can download it and run locally, no worries.

It will install the binary nix-1.8 package and will ask you for permission to
create /nix directory, where all packages will be installed. If you don't have
sudo permissions, create /nix as root and become the owner.

If you hate Nix, then rm -rf /nix and forget about it, thats all!

You should have the Nix package manager installed in /nix/store and thats where
everything else will be installed and not on your /usr/bin or whatever.

Now Nix should be in your PATH, the installer should have added it. Just relogin
and you should be able to use Nix now. If don't want to logout then do

``` bash
source ~/.nix-profile/etc/profile.d/nix.sh
```

But I recommend logging out and the logging in.

Now try

``` bash
nix-env --help
```

If it works, then you are all set :^)

Try to install something that is not already installed by your package manager.

``` bash
nix-env -i sl
```

and try using it with the sl command...

Then, try

``` bash
nix-store -qR ~/.nix-profile/bin/sl
```

It will show the closure of the sl package. For me, the closure is

``` bash
/nix/store/qwwxgsg6l33lhx0v75mgmb077qggh8yl-linux-headers-3.12.32
/nix/store/la5imi1602jxhpds9675n2n2d0683lbq-glibc-2.20
/nix/store/r5sxfcwq9324xvcd1z312kb9kkddqvld-bash-4.3-p30
/nix/store/4hz3s6apn27qwfq5bqdkg10pvlxgcn4d-ncurses-5.9
/nix/store/4va4g3y3cmrip9134nry1cgyyb332vxn-sl-3.03
```

(I am on the NixOS channel, so things might be slightly different for you.)

The "closure" of a program is the portion of the nix store it needs, with all
its direct and indirect dependencies. So, if you copy the closure and distribute
it in a tar package, it should work on any other machine (ofcourse, of the same architecture!)

Now, remember nix store is completely isolated. If a package needs glibc or
whatever, it will use the  nix-specific version of it and not your distro's glibc!

Here comes the cool part of Nix. Install another package eg.

``` bash
 nix-env -i cacert
```

After that, try

``` bash
nix-env --list-generations
```

Every, time you do some change(install/remove packages) you create a new environment. If
something breaks(or just for lulz) in your new environment you can switch to the previous
environment with

``` bash
nix-env --switch-generation <generation number>
```

Imagine using a distro where you can declare what it should have in your environment
and can switch to the previous environment, if something breaks.

For realz check out: [NixOS](nixos.org)

Note that the nix-env -i command will be awfully slow and you should always use
nix-env -iA and what is that? RTFM! :-)
